Hey everyone, this lecture is
about the dplyr package in R,
which is a package specifically designed
to help you work with data frames.
So in this lecture I'll just cover
the basics to introduce the package and
we'll talk about the verbs arrange,
filter, select, mutate and rename.
And we'll show you how to use these
functions to manipulate data frames and
to manage data in a more efficient and
kind of, easy-to-use way.
The dplyr package is about working
with data frames because data
frames are key data structure in
statistics, and in R, in general.
So the basic assumptions that are made by
the dplyr package are that the data in a,
in a given data frame, each
observation is represented by one row.
And then every column represents
a variable or a measure or characteristic.
So, these are con,
basic concepts from the I,
from the notion of kind of tidy data,
right?
And so the so there are a number
of different implementations for
the dplyr package, in terms of back
ends for representing data frames.
But we'll use for this presentation
just the default R implementation.
But you can dplyr with things
like the data table package and
with relational database systems.
So the dplyr package was developed
by Hadley Wickham at RStudio in,
it often can be thought
of as an optimized and
distilled version of the plyr package
which we also talked about here.
And now, and it doesn't necessarily
conceptually provide any new
functionality, but it greatly simplifies a
lot of the existing functionality in R and
it makes it a lot faster.
And the verym and
one of the reasons it's a lot faster is
because a lot of the operations are coded
in C++ you know, kind of at a low level.
So some of the basic
dplyr verbs are select,
filter, arrange, rename, and
mutate as well as summarize.
And so we're going to cover each one
of these, verbs, so to speak, in the,
in the, in the grammar of data
manipulation in, in this presentation.
So, select basically returns a subset
of the columns of a data frame.
Filter extracts a subset of
rows arrange allows you to
reorder the rows of a data frame while
preserving the order of the other columns.
rename, lets you rename the variable,
and mutate kind of transforms or
adds new variables to a data frame.
And then finally summarize,
helps you generate summary
statistics of the data frame.
So all the dplyr functions kind
of have a similar format, and
so the first argument
is always a data frame.
And then the subsequent arguments are just
kind of, describe, what to do with it.
So, in the select function, for
example, you would refer to different
column names by their name.
In the filter function,
you might create a kind of logical,
a logical, test, to see two subset rows.
And so that, that's what,
that's what goes into the second
argument of each one of these functions.
The result is always a new data frame, so
each one of these functions takes data
frame as an argument and
always returns a data frame.
So and so you have to be careful
that your data frames are always
properly formatted and annotated.
For example, the factor levels are,
are all kind of annotated and
that the variable names are all there, for
any, for all these functions to be useful.